Invariants are logical conditions that member variables must adhere to.
In a sense, they limit what values we can set or we can assign to member variables.
For example, in this date class,
day needs to be between 1 and 31 and in fact,
you could set a more sophisticated and more accurate invariant
that looked at what the month was and
set the appropriate invariant for day based on the value of month.
We have a pretty simple invariant here that just simply says
the day has to be between 1 and 31 because for all months,
day is at least between 1 and 31,
and then it's a little more limited for certain months like, say, February.
You could imagine also setting up invariants for month.
Year doesn't really have an invariant.
If you assume that negative is essentially a year in BC,
then year might not have an invariant.
In fact, we might assign or specify the year is a public member variable.
But sometimes it's cleaner for symmetry if
all the other members are private and have accessors and
mutators to just give year its own accessor
and mutator even if the mutator doesn't really apply an invariant.
This is the main reason to use a class instead of a struct.
If you're just carrying publicly accessible data where
all the data members can vary independently of each
other and don't really have any limitations then you might use a struct.
As soon as you start to have data members that you want to make private or
that have invariants or limits on them,
and often those two things are connected,
then the convention is typically to convert from a struct into a class